Recently I have been chatting with someone who's been working on learning Ruby on Rails (like me!) and I came upon the realization that they were not aware of a few tools that are helpful when testing Webhooks or even just exposing your development server to the internet. 

The person I was speaking with had managed to find a way to do their testing with the app deployed to a server (manually, I may add, the HARD way), but running as a development environment. I need to say in case they're reading this, it's not their fault they didn't know of these tools. I think that there is a general lack of educational resources out there letting people know about these tools, I happened across them by luck actually. 

If you've developed an application or deployed an app before you may already be aware there are some wonderful and useful tools that handle things for deployments or testing web hooks. I'm mostly referring to using something like [Capistrano](http://capistranorb.com/#) for deployments. 

Today I'm going to skip the deployment side of things though and talk about using something like [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) or [localtunnel.me](https://localtunnel.me).

So let's take a basic example of you're working on a project for someone and maybe you want to get some quick feedback from a friend, coworker or even a client... but you don't have the infrastructure setup to deploy it to a staging server, or maybe you're not even to that point yet but are still early in to the "code spike". 

If I'm throwing up a quick server just to share with friends I'll sometimes use localtunnel. If you follow the instructions to install it on their site you'll be good to go. I think it requires having nodejs and npm, but if you don't have it or you don't want to install nodejs/npm, you can use ngork instead. 

So let's say I'm running my rails app with `rails server -b 0.0.0.0 -p 3000` and I want to expose it to the public. I'll run:

```
lt -p 3000 -s myquickdemo
```

Here i've specified the port is 3000 for the Rails server and then I pass in -s with what I'd like my subdomain to me. Now I have a tunnel to the internet for my computer. I can give my friend the URL of myquickdemo.localtunnel.me and then they can see my rails app. 

If you don't pass in a subdomain they'll auto generate a random one, and even if you do pass a subdomain option you're not guaranteed to get it if its in use. But using the subdomain option lets you if you pick one unique enough leave it in your callbacks for your development apps and not need to change it each time. 

## Ngrok

Ngrok is pretty similar to Local Tunnel with the exception of it's a downloadable file so you don't need npm/node installed. Once you download the file you can open up a server by running 

```
./ngrok http 3000
```

Ngrok seems like it has more features and if you take a moment to look through their documentation you'll see it appears that way. I've just recently started using ngrok because of my particular network setup it seems to have less issues with dropping connections due to firewalls, but your mileage of course may vary. 

You can find [Ngrok's documentation](https://ngrok.com/docs/2) here. Give it a read through, they appear to have a subdomain option as well. 

I hope this helps and thanks for reading.

Andrew Fomera
