*Sidenote: the views stated here are my own and not that of my employer*

It's New Years Eve and that means it's time for this year's reflection. 

2016 was by far the best year of my life so far. It's easy to focus on all of the negative things in life when they happen and it's very difficult to see past them if you let the small things get to you. 

But if you finally look past all of the small negative things that happen you can see that there are plenty of good things happening. 

So quickly, here's a few of the good things that happened in 2016. 

1. I got a new job doing software development
2. I moved to Birmingham, Alabama
3. I made new friends and I am the happiest I have been in a long time
4. I learned more about who I am as a person and who I want to be.
5. I read more books. (I forgot how much I enjoyed reading!)

-----

If you would have told me a year ago this is where I would have been, I am not sure I would have believed you. I've wanted a job writing code since mid-to-late 2014 and it was one of my 2015 resolutions to have a new job doing it by 2016. I had a few set backs when trying to get my first job but given enough resilience, it finally paid off.

I recently read an article on [10 Principles I Want to Live By](https://medium.freecodecamp.com/10-principles-i-want-to-live-by-fae94ded9c84#.jutragrfy). 

This is a great write-up and I thought that I would give my own list for the New Year. Some of these are inspired by Haseeb's post.

* **Stop overanalyzing**
* **Always Be Learning** 
* **Fight quietly for what you care about.**
* **Create my own path**
* **Give back to the community.**
* **Hold yourself true to your values**
* **Have an open mind**
* **Work hard so you can play hard.**
* **Forgive yourself for your mistakes**
* **Burn the Boats. [Video here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nlNngcDNFS0)**

So here's to a New Year! 

Andrew Fomera
