Today I wanted to dust off the blog and write a post, I've spent the better part of the evening driving around trying to decide what I wanted to write about. I thought I may blog about my experiences with anxiety and depression, but as I sat down to write I thought I would instead talk about **mentoring** and save the other stuff for another day.

So to cut it short because I've spent too much time on YouTube tonight and it's now 1am... Here's a list of my takeaways from what I've learned from mentoring/being mentored:

1. **Everyone has something to teach.** Regardless of their experience levels. 
2. **Teaching others is hard**, often times when I'm working with someone for a long period of time I go home exhausted. 
3. **It's rewarding to see the successes.**
4. **You can always learn** from people who know less than you on the subject matter at hand. They've had a different life experience. 
5. I wouldn't be who I am today without the people who took the time to mentor me and answer questions. So thank you to those out there who answered my questions! 
6. **Learn from failures/Accept feedback** - You have to be willing to accept failure and learn from feedback from people who you're working with to be successful. Maybe you didn't let them ask enough questions or maybe you explained things poorly. Get feedback from those you work with so you can improve on the points they give you. 

Well, that's all I have time for tonight. This has been my outline for things I've tried to keep in mind when mentoring/being mentored. 

Thanks for reading
