Hey everyone,

It's been a while from the last time I blogged, and there really is no excuse for it. If I had to give a reason it would be 'lack of topics to blog about'. There's no reason I haven't blogged in over a month. So today I'm fixing that.

For the past week I have kept to somewhat of a stricter schedule and have forced myself to go to the gym every day (or exercised outside if I could not make it to the gym), this has also sparked myself to try and drink more water and less soda. Sometimes I fail at drinking less soda, sometimes I succeed.

So why am I telling everyone about my recent flirtations with the gym? Well it's because in the past I've had trouble committing to finishing. Finishing projects I have started, finishing things on my to-do list around the house, etc. There are dozens if not hundreds of things that in the past that I have not 'finished'. I want to fix that and one of the best ways to do so is to publicly commit to doing them.

I am very reward oriented. I don't like doing things unless there is some kind of reward for me at the end. I think that sometimes I let myself fail or not do something because I think "What's the point? I'll never get where I want to be." **This is a stupid way of thinking** It's a negative mindset and negative mindsets are unhealthy. I told myself I had to go to the gym for 14 consecutive days, if I did that, I would buy a Mac.

One of my goals is to make an iOS app and well... the only way to do that is to have a Mac. So I thought maybe I'd kill two birds with one stone and get myself going to the gym so I can live healthier and buy a Mac so I could make the iOS app I want to make. Here's the dirty truth though, I can't afford a Mac. I could finance one and that was my plan 7 days ago when I started going to the gym, but it's a stupid financial move right now. One that I can't afford to make.

So here is the problem I have now, I told myself I would reward myself by getting a Mac when I worked out 14 days in a row. I'm at day 7 now and the simple fact is I can't justifiably purchase one given the circumstances of the Bank of Andrew. So I now need to continually motivate myself to keep going to the gym.

I don't like failing to do something I set out to do. It makes me feel bad and then I get into a cycle of self-loathing, but rewards are a funny thing. They're supposed to be there to reward you not punish you. So here's what I'm thinking: I'm going to try and keep going, pushing myself to reach day 15. Pushing myself to do things that make me uncomfortable, make me live healthier and be a better person.

**I'm committing to finishing what I start.** This is something I'm applying to everything I can, not just my workouts, but my programming projects, my vlogs I've been working on and more.

There will be days I fall, days I don't want to do something, but I need to remember my **Commitment to Finish** and get myself back out there and do what I set out to.

Thanks for reading everyone!

[Tweet me your thoughts!](https://twitter.com/AndrewFomera)
