Today I walked into The Fresh Market and I was immediately like a child in an Auto Parts store. I didn't know what anything went to or meant. It dawned on me that I know nothing about healthy food. 

I know from growing up to eat your fruits and vegetables but not much more than that. I don't know about making good meals at home. I spend way too much money eating out and the food I eat usually doesn't even make me feel good after I eat it.

I think I remember reading a long time ago that the more processed the food is the better it tastes while eating but the worse you feel after it? Not entirely sure if I just made that up but it sounds close enough to the truth it's probably correct.

For example, as much as I love to eat Taco Bell and it tastes fantastic while I'm eating it I don't feel good an hour after eating it. I get lethargic and honestly don't like myself for how I feel (after eating any kind of fast food). In my last blog post [Commitment to Finish](http://andrewfomera.com/posts/commitment-to-finish) I talked about how I was working out more and I was trying to do a 14 day streak. Well I made it 9 times before I just didn't go. I don't have a reason for why I stopped, I just didn't go again.

It seems silly that for whatever reason I think I can throw myself into these sudden lifestyle changes and expect immediate results. We're living in an instant gratification society and I have to stop expecting that if I work out a few days in a row I'll see 10 pounds drop off of my body. 

So moral of the story, I'm going to work towards eating healthier. I need it to feel better because I'm tired of feeling like this when I'm so young. The time to get healthy is now. 
