It's 2016, a new year. A time for fresh starts. We're actually 17 days into 2016 and I'm just now getting around to writing my post. It seems to be every 5 months or so I'll be like "Oh hey, I have a blog I should do something with it!"

In 2014, my main resolution was to learn how to speak German. That didn't last very long. Instead I decided that I'd start programming Ruby on Rails (like fully dedicated to learning). I had played with Ruby on Rails back at the end of 2013, in November specifically, but I never got anywhere with it. I was able to do just about the bare minimum, I made a mostly static website and then pushed it live. I didn't touch it again for weeks. 

Any time I touched it I got the drive back to continue to program more and more. I told myself if I kept at it, I could get a job I enjoy. Then the doubt struck. Crippling self-hatred and doubt crippled my ability to focus, my ability to have confidence in code.

When I started in November of 2013 I started with OneMonthRails, now OneMonth. After the course I was disappointed, disheartened. I didn't know *where* to go next. I was but one tiny ripple lost in the ocean of many developers who looked much bigger and smarter than myself. 

So I didn't know where to go next, all the self-doubt struck in and what do I do? **I gave up**. I thought there wasn't any way I was smart enough to make it work. Six months after I initially gave up I picked up Ruby on Rails again. I had done a static website for a community I run and it needed updating. So I did it in the most familiar thing I knew, Ruby on rails. It was overkill for some static html, but I used it because I wanted to use Bootstrap for the design... and using Ruby on Rails was one of the ways I knew how I could edit some of the settings on it. 

Then the inspiration struck. I had been manually whitelisting users for a year or so, users would come to a forum post, enter their username to their game and then I'd go look it up manually. Then have to whitelist them on the servers across multiple ones. It'd end up taking 10-15 minutes per person each time I added someone. 

I knew there was a way I could make it better. That's really when I started doubling down, working to do the projects most people do when they start out. Make a blog, make a twitter clone, make a task list etc. Then I felt confident that I could pull off my plan. 

## The plan was simple

The plan was to get a job by the end of 2015 doing programming. The short story is that I missed the mark. I had some leads towards the end of 2015 that would have led to a job, but they fell through and/or I didn't follow though. Then the start of 2016 came and things are starting to look up. But that's another story for another day. 

I'm excited for 2016, there's a lot that is left for me to do on my list. Much more to program and I continue to find new things to hack on and that makes me happy. So moral of the story: never give up on your dreams. Chase them for all they're worth because if you stop chasing your dreams then you'll never reach them. 
