On December 17th my previous coding streak record was 11 days, but that ended when I missed the window to push code that night. So on December 18th, 2015 I started over. For the past 50 days I have pushed code to GitHub at least once. This is my write-up on some of them.

## Timing is everything

If you were to actually look at the timestamps on my commits they all appear between 10 pm and 2 am every day. Many days I would sit down at 10 pm and be like "Oh crap, I haven't pushed code today!" Then I would rush out some minor change before midnight and then end up keep working.

I found myself pushing many smaller changes off until the next night, or saying "Oh I'll change that tomorrow just in case." In case what? In case I don't feel like coding tomorrow? That's exactly my thoughts.

## Getting distracted can kill my groove.

I'm sitting down, programming when my phone rings. Just a twitter notification, but I stopped and looked at it. Suddenly I'm not programming and I'm on Twitter, _shit_, I notice it and go back to programming. But now I'm not sure where I was or I can't get back into it.

A few nights ago I started setting a timer on my phone, making sure everything social media wise was closed and got to work. I told myself not to look at anything but programming related things. I was *way more productive* working this way. I set timers for about 25 minutes, worked on stuff tried to get a feature or bug fix in, took a few minute break then did it again.

One night I was feeling good so I set the timer for a solid hour. I managed to add a feature, test it out and then deploy it within an hour with five minutes to spare. It felt AMAZING.

Nights when I sat down distracted or stopped to take care of work things or other things I had trouble getting into the groove, leading me to 'cheat' and just push a small change up to keep the streak alive.

## When drained mentally it's hard writing good code

I had some long mentally taxing days at my day job and when I sat down at night it was really hard to write code that made sense. Most of the time I ended up getting frustrated it wouldn't work the way I wanted and reverting my changes before committing, and then making a small minor change (like to the readme!)

I'm hopeful that making a schedule change where I program when there is actual daylight hours will help.

## I'm not sure I'll continue this streak

I'm honestly not sure if I will continue this streak. I feel that in the end the streak days doesn't really matter if the commits end up being cheat days. It'd probably be better to focus on writing solid code.

Thanks for reading everyone. If you have thoughts on this, hit me up on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/AndrewFomera)
